The Noob's guide to Eradicated: getting around on the scariest dimension

Part 0: What the hell?
If you found this right after unlocking Eradicated, then welcome. Erad is the sequel challenge to Obliterated, a challenge with a very powerful base stat multiplier and immensely amplified scaling. Getting anywhere on this challenge requires adapting to its functions and abandoning general run stereotypes, as just like Oblit, it has its own meta that you have to build your strategies around. It also has both Corruption, Magma and Nature from zone 1, furthering the challenge's complexity. But today, we'll understand every single moving part of this challenge and turn it into one of the most rewarding experiences of the game.

Part 1: The first run
After the 5.2 patch, it has become even more common than usual to unlock Eradicated before its exclusive feats are visible to the player. So, since you're here, your first run, just like Oblit, will involve you killing one enemy off for an 80% feat. It is not much different from Obliterate, just reset until you get a non-fast enemy then hold F until it dies. Zone 1 is poison so it just dies eventually.

Part 2: The basics

You usually should start your run with a population-heavy perk spec. Allocate around 80-90% of your helium on population perks (7:1 atk to health, 90 pop), except on your very first run, which will want a lot of health as well to survive zone 1 enemies (around 7:25 atk to health instead). Then withhold coords as far as possible. This will get you an extra amalgamator with several times less helium than spontaneously, and since you won't be accessing geneticists for a long time, this is a key factor in the success of your runs. For most runs, it's highly recommended you lower your DG slider because you aren't actually getting much fuel and won't get any overclocks if you keep it maxed.
Enemy stats scale by 3x on even zones, so most of your raiding should be done on odd zones. Despite it being in Magma, you get 2 coordinations per zone, which makes it so your stats still go up per zone in the same way they usually do. In the earlier runs (nolight or poison) you want to raid **constantly**. Missing the optimal window for a raid can severely lengthen or even ruin a run.

Part 3: Enlightenment Strategies

Another core aspect of Eradicated that is very much slept on by many people is that there are two enlightenments that work on it. Common sense would point out poison, which is not a bad enlight for it at all and which works when on non-ideal stat ranges, but the best enlight is undoubtedly ice. That is because the biggest stat walls that will stand on your way will, just like in the main game, be wind zones, in this case 21, 36, 51 and so on, making it so most of the time you'll spend will be on ice zones. the amplified scaling and lack of BW raiding makes that ratio even more exacerbated, making runs that take it to a wind wall *always* being easier on icelight.
However, many times an icelight run to your target will take a *very* long amount of time, but you're still able to bury yourself a few zones into the current wind wall, as a run to it would be extremely short. in that case, poisonlight is superior.

If you are running icelight, it is ill-advised to raid on wind, even for just the dagger it is not worth it. waiting until the odd zone on the ice band for doing all the equipment raids is the better choice.

Part 4: Advanced Techniques

Depending on how close you are to obtaining the next amalgamator by using the basic coord withholding method, manual fueling might just get you there. It'll usually take around 1-2 hours to burn through it and the more overclocker levels you have, the weaker this will be.
If you're using ice enlight, unbuying and rebuying excessive to avoid corrupted cells(mostly toughs) and zone bosses is a legitimate strategy, especially after breaking the planet where zone bosses get way tankier.

Run Data:
z22, 52Qi He, E3L9 - around 2 hours, a lot of starting zone micro to get two magma spaces before corruption for DG tick. No enlight.
z36, 400Qi He, E4L9 - around 3 hours, pretty straightforward. No enlight.
z51, 18Sx He, E6L9 - around 3 hours, Ice Enlight.
z66, 158Sx He, E6L9 - around 2.5 days, *very* difficult run that had a lot of parts that could've gone wrong. Ice Enlight.
z81, 9Sp He, E8L9 - slightly over a day, far more straightforward but quite long, Ice Enlight
z97, 1.5Oc He, E10L9 - around 2 hours. 111 would take around 2-3 weeks, so Poison would have been better.
z111, 12Oc He, E10L9 - around 18 hours.

Now that we've gotten all the general information out of the way, two "spoilery" footnotes for lategame Erad strategies.

Footnote 1: z70+, how Geneticists affect Erad

Unlocking Geneticists will slightly alter the meta - Now you won't want to raid for equips on ice zones if they're 1-5, as holding on until poison is faster. In fact, in icelight runs, the 1-5 ice zones are faster than the preceeding 6-0 wind zones on average, even if not micromanaged. The only reason you'd usually want to raid on 1-5 ice before was that leaving the raids to poison was immensely risky and could lead to the run being killed off by the raids being impossible - now you can just build a few nurseries and things move on as normal. Runs in general get way harder to screw up after this.

Footnote 2: z100+, the New Era

Erad only actually gives 2 coords per zone on the first 100 zones, so for these final few runs the perceived enemy scaling is actually gonna get far harsher. With that, many of the things i said stop applying after z100 and progression data gets more sparse - However, both for z111 and z126(good luck lol), the best options so far seem to be raiding +10 once for the dagger on both 101(ice) and 111(wind), and the rest remains the same.